[KYOKO]
Hey, Dad?
You didn't forget, right?
You promised me we'd visit
Mom's grave together.
I'm coming up on a deadline.
Are you shutting yourself
in the house again?
[KYOKO'S DAD]
I'll go next year.
[KYOKO] That's what
you say every year.
I'm going to study.
[KYOKO]
Not quite.
Edge AC is the
diameter of the circle
circumscribed around
triangle ADC, right?
Oh, yeah, I missed that.
See?
Sorry about that.
So is this right?
[KYOKO]
That's it.
[sighs]
Honestly, I feel bad for making
you pull all the weight here.
Oh. Excuse me. That sigh
was about something else.
Uh... Too much time studying?
[KYOKO]
No. Studying never bothers me.
But things at home
have been prickly.
[YOTA] Did you get in
a fight with your dad?
Well no. It's just...
He never leaves
the house anymore.
I see. I guess working from home
isn't that big a deal
for a translator. So then‐‐
Ever since Mom passed away,
he's hardly gone outside.
He's basically been a shut‐in
for more than ten years now.
Even when I go to visit
her grave every year,
he never comes with me.
He just promises me
that he will next year.
That must be tough.
Well, it does make things tense.
Hold on. Does that mean
you've been coming here
to get out of the house?
Yes.
[YOTA] This whole time I thought
you were coming here to see me.
[HINA] So? Is it this matter
that bringeth thy spirits low?
[YOTA]
Obviously.
Doth not the desire to
give her solace stir in thee?
[YOTA] It's complicated
trying to close the distance
with the opposite sex.
I understand that now.
Maybe that means I'm growing up.
You're a fool!
Hast thou forgotten
that all that is shall
cease to be 12 days hence?
Wouldst thou have her family
come to their ends
un‐reconciled?
Obviously I'd like to see them
work things out, but I‐‐
[HINA]
Then cease thy moping and go!
And I shall
accompany thee as well!
Hold on, where are
we going? To do what?
To Izanami's father,
that he may come out
into the world again.
[doorbell rings]
[KYOKO'S DAD]
Yes? Izanami residence.
Hi, sir. My name
is Yota Narukami.
Your daughter and I have
been friends for a long time.
[KYOKO'S DAD] Oh, hi, Yota.
She's out right now.
No. This is about you.
[KYOKO'S DAD]
Huh? What is it?
Actually, if it's not
too much trouble,
I was hoping you would
join me for a quick stroll?
[KYOKO'S DAD] I have work.
Some other time maybe.
He's not on
summer vacation, too!
What man would be enticed
from ten years' seclusion
by the mere offer
of thy company?
[KYOKO'S DAD]
Yes? Izanami residence.
[YOTA]
Hi, sir. This is Yota Narukami.
Your daughter and I have
been friends for a long time.
[KYOKO'S DAD]
She's out right now.
No. This is about you.
[KYOKO'S DAD]
What is it?
I know a place, where the
girls are extra friendly.
You want in, bro?
[KYOKO'S DAD]
I have work. No time.
Did thy faculties
take leave of thee?
Huh? Well you said I
should "entice" him,
and the guy's been alone for
ten years, so I just thought‐‐
[HINA] Oh, what, that he
might wanna hit the clubs
with a frickin' minor?
You two gonna ogle some girls
barely older than his own kid?
[YOTA]
So what do I do then?
[HINA] Hmm. When is the
maiden Izanami's birthday?
The 29th of August.
That should have not
come out so fast.
Wait, that's soon!
[KYOKO'S DAD]
Yes? Izanami residence.
[YOTA]
Hi, sir. This is Yota Narukami.
Your daughter and I
have been friends for...
This exchange be
rehearsed enough, surely.
[YOTA] Well I would really
like to get your daughter
a gift for her birthday.
I hope you can point me
in the right direction.
Can you help me
pick something please?
[KYOKO'S DAD sighs]
Steady onward!
I wanna make her happy, sir.
If you'll help me,
I think I can give her
something she'll love!
I think she would
treasure this gift forever!
I know in the depths
of my heart she would!
Is it a birthday gift
or engagement ring?
‐‐[door unlocks]
‐‐[YOTA gasps]
So it's just gonna
be the two of us?
[HINA] Nay, I as well.
Odin, wisest and
most adoreable‐est
of the gods. [giggles]
Well this is new.
My daughter's the only girl
I've ever seen you with.
It's not like that, sir!
She's just a relative
who's been staying
with my family
for the summer break.
Oh really. Yeah, I guess
it is that time of year.
[YOTA] Sure is! Great day
to be outside, don'tcha think?
Why not?
Uh... You're not gonna
change clothes first?
[KYOKO'S DAD] Well it's not like
I'm going to a meeting, is it?
Then the troubles that afflict
him have deeply taken root.
Do you have a general idea
of what you're looking for?
I was kinda thinking
we just start browsing
and you can offer me your input.
[KYOKO'S DAD]
Everything's so different.
'Course, it has been
several years now
since I've been out here.
Do you really spend
that much time at home?
[KYOKO'S DAD]
Basically the only place I go
is the convenience store.
What kind of food is this?
This is a white
curry restaurant.
Huh. What a brave
new world this is!
There's turmeric
and chili powder.
And charred onions as well!
How can all that
add up to white?
Just what kind of
culinary alchemy
could be in effect here?
I must know!
So it's white because
it has a generous
helping of cheese in it, huh?
Truly delicious!
I'm picking up a sort of
exotic air from this restaurant.
This is a Korean
restaurant that's famous
for its cheese dak galbi.
"Cheese dak galbi"!
I've heard about
that. I need it!
[KYOKO'S DAD]
It's like a river of cheese.
Should I really destroy
something this beautiful?
Uh...
[KYOKO'S DAD] How are all these
new restaurants so chic?
Apparently at this one,
they pour melted raclette cheese
over your food
right at the table.
I'm going!
It's like being
a young girl in the Alps!
Well I'm glad
you're enjoying it.
Why are we just running around
eating things covered in cheese?
Be there an issue?
What about the present‐‐
[HINA]
'Twas but pretext, you fool!
For this be thy
true goal, and lo,
thy mission is already
well‐nigh completed!
[YOTA]
Oh yeah, good point.
A wine would pair
nicely with this.
Pardon me, but may I
order a drink, please?
Ah. Yes, feel free, sir.
[KYOKO'S DAD] It's been some
time since I had such fine wine.
Reminds me of how things were.
She'd be sitting across
the table from me,
right where you are,
handling the wine much
better than I could manage.
Now, here I am,
about to go through
this entire bottle by myself.
I think I should be with her.
Heck yeah!
Hold on. Pray thee tell.
For whose company
dost thy heart long?
Obviously...
I want to see my wife.
You can't do that,
sir! Go, Yota!
Please don't, sir, your daughter
needs you! No matter how hard...
That's not what I meant, guys!
[YOTA] Your wife
left you video messages?
For just a little while,
they allow me to
be with her again.
The lady Izanami entrusted
some parting words to thee?
Please don't tell
my daughter about that.
What?
Are you saying she hasn't
had a chance to see them?
Wherefore?
[KYOKO'S DAD] I'm sorry, but
that's strictly a family matter
and I won't discuss it.
So promise me. Don't tell her.
[HINA] Ahh! Hark, Yota,
for this shop hath figures
of the monsters
from thy video game!
And yea, they be
precious in my sight!
I don't think Izanami
would be into those.
Yota. Be there in
thy home any video
of the lady Izanami
before her passing?
Huh. I think we have some
pictures if that helps.
A static image shall do no good,
but might there be video of
your two families' travels?
[YOTA]
Hmm. I can ask Mom about it.
[KYOKO'S MOM]
Oh, Kyoko, sweetie.
You are absolutely
covered in sauce!
Gosh. See? Try to eat carefully!
Now just sit still for...
[HINA] So this is the mother
of the maiden Izanami.
[YOTA] She was such a kind lady.
A truly wonderful person.
I have seen enough
to devise a sound plan.
Uh, you mind
telling me what it is?
Izanami hath not been told of
her mother's final message.
That a child should
be so deprived
is more than I'm
willing to abide!
ou were like this back
when you heard about Jinguji.
It seems like problems
involving people's moms
set you off somehow.
Did something happen?
I have no parents. I am a god.
Could you drop the
gimmick for a sec‐‐
Forsooth. This tragedy
hath taken root in
the house of Izanami and
borne the fruit of strife.
If that's true,
then it would really help
if she could see the messages
her mom recorded.
Her and her dad both.
But it's still
something they have to
deal with as a family.
We can't just‐‐
[HINA]
Aye. Then let us become family.
Huh?
Indeed, for it is known.
The voice which calleth
out from thy phone
be not reproduced,
but synthesized.
Uh‐‐ Really?
Fool! 'Tis common sense!
Hath their towers the bandwidth
to faithfully reproduce
the full timbre of the
multitudes of voices
conversing at any time
upon their networks?
They bear but the
voice's parameters,
that thy phone may select
a passable approximation.
If that's how they work,
then I can sound like
Izanami on the phone!
Purge thy mind of such thoughts.
Okay fine,
then what are we doing?
I place a call to
Izanami on thy phone,
whilst disguising
my voice as her mother's.
What?
Heh. And verily, my manner
shall be as hers in the utmost.
All right. But what about
the part where that's insane?
[HINA chuckles] Thou need'st but
put thy faith in Odin almighty.
Hey, Izanami. What's up?
Hi, Narukami. How are you?
So, uh, has your dad said
anything to you lately?
Uh‐‐like what?
Oh no, never mind!
Welp. Let's study!
[KYOKO]
Hm?
[sighs] I say we
call it for today.
I'm fine with that.
[YOTA]
Izanami.
[KYOKO]
Hm?
[YOTA] Weird question, but if
you could have a conversation
with your mother right now,
would you want to?
[gasps]
'Cause see, I've been
getting really into
magic research lately.
Keep this to yourself, but I
managed to build a cell phone
that can connect
to the underworld.
And that very phone is
in my hand right now.
You're probably thinking I've
gone crazy, and believe me,
I get that, but just try
to keep an open mind.
Have you tested it?
Were you able to talk with
anyone on the other side?
Of course, yeah!
There was, uh...
I talked to Natsume
Souseki for a bit.
[KYOKO]
What did he say?
"I am a cat.
As yet I have no name."
He just dropped that
in a conversation?
Exactly! There musta been some
kinda time weirdness going on
'cause he was all,
"Yeah, there's an opening."
That sounds like
a miraculous moment.
Uh‐‐ Don't worry about the
details. Just go with it, okay?
Yes, hello?
[KYOKO'S MOM]
Hello! Kyoko?
[KYOKO]
Hm? It's me.
[KYOKO'S MOM] Wonderful.
This is your mother calling.
You sound exactly like her.
[KYOKO'S MOM chuckles]
Almost like I am her.
[KYOKO] Somehow, this really
does feel nostalgic.
[KYOKO'S MOM]
That's great, sweetie!
You don't know how happy I am
to talk with you again.
[KYOKO] Hey, Mom.
Where are you right now?
[KYOKO'S MOM] I'm in the
land of the dead, of course!
[KYOKO]
Are you doing all right?
[KYOKO'S MOM]
Oh, I'm great!
That Hades guy
took a liking to me,
and being friends with
a god has its perks.
[KYOKO giggles]
I'm glad to hear it.
[YOTA] Was that Izanami
actually laughing?
[KYOKO] Mom. Was it...
Was dying hard on you?
[KYOKO'S MOM]
Nothing is permanent.
Everything that exists
goes through changes,
and I knew that
my day was coming.
Having time to prepare
made things much easier.
It was what fate
had in store for me,
and I accepted that.
Now, I'm gonna have to go soon.
[gasps] Go where?
[KYOKO'S MOM]
To the next life.
Can we talk when you get there?
[KYOKO'S MOM]
Aww, sweetie.
It's a miracle that
we're talking right now.
Please stay with me!
[KYOKO'S MOM] When you miss me,
watch my video messages.
[KYOKO]
Video messages? Hold on!
[KYOKO'S MOM] Honestly!
I told your father to show you!
I'm sure they just slipped
his mind. Be sure to ask him.
Then you can
watch them together.
Anyway, that's it!
Hades is calling for me.
It's inventory day, and so of
course he's absolutely slammed.
[YOTA] Why would a god of death
have an inventory day?
Wait. Mom!
[KYOKO'S MOM]
Well, goodbye, Kyoko!
[gasps]
So... How is she?
She said she left
video messages.
I really need to go home.
Thank you very much!
Izanami.
This shall surely set
things in motion for them.
Uh‐huh.
Is it true?
Dad, did Mom really leave us
video messages? Tell me!
[gasps] How'd you know?
Did Yota say that?
Then it is. Why would you
hide them from me?
I can't explain it.
Have you watched them already?
I haven't seen the end.
I just can't bear
to finish them.
I always find myself
re‐watching the same parts
over and over again.
They're what I've been
holding onto all these years.
And if I ask to watch them,
will you let me?
Just not all the way through.
Hi, Kyoko!
Happy seventh birthday, sweetie!
They're to me?
[KYOKO'S MOM]
...elementary school, right?
To think my rowdy little girl
is in elementary school now.
Even when you really want to,
it's never okay to
hit the boys, you got it?
Now I have something
to tell you.
I know I hadn't mentioned this,
but I've been studying magic
for quite some time.
And I'm looking for a spell
that can make a happy family.
I think I'm almost there,
so hold on a bit longer!
Hi, Kyoko! I hope you have
a happy 13th birthday.
I'm sure you're busy with school
and learning about love,
though I do worry you'll ruffle
the boys' feathers a little bit.
That happens sometimes with
rambunctious girls like you.
I've kept working on my spell
and I almost have it ready now.
But I'll let you
see it next time.
[KYOKO'S MOM] Hi, Kyoko!
Happy 18th birthday, sweetie!
By this point I'm sure
you've grown up
into a lovely young lady.
What kind of guys
do you like, I wonder?
Maybe you're a sucker
for a pretty face like me!
Listen. My next message
for you will be my last.
Huh? But why now?
You just asked why, didn't you?
[giggles] Well, I'll tell you.
Once you finish
watching these messages,
I need you to destroy them,
and then I'm gonna need you guys
to forget all about me.
You can do that
for me, right, hon?
[KYOKO'S DAD sighs]
That's as far as we can go.
Could that be why?
[KYOKO] When I was little,
I was kind of a troublemaker.
But then, ever since Mom died,
I've kept everything
so bottled up.
So I wonder if watching
her last message
might help me change that.
Help me open up a little.
Hey, Dad. Let's watch the rest.
[KYOKO'S DAD]
Not yet.
We can't live in the past.
Our lives have to keep going!
We'll do it together.
I'm right here with you.
You won't lose me, too, okay?
[KYOKO'S DAD gasps]
We'll be fine, right, Dad?
Let's watch the rest.
[KYOKO'S DAD]
Okay.
[KYOKO'S MOM]
Your father has always been
very talented at his work,
but everyday life can be
a bit of a struggle for him.
The one thing that
came easily to him
was loving me with all he had,
and it won't be easy
for him to give that up.
I'm sure he'll be
depressed when I'm gone.
But I want him to be happy.
I hope he'll move on
and meet somebody new.
Please give him
that wish for me.
Of course I realize this is
your father we're talking about,
and I'm sure he's still going to
spend plenty of time
moping over me.
Yes, dear, you will.
You, too, Kyoko.
Are you in low spirits
now that I'm gone?
'Cause that's the
last thing I wanted.
And that's why
I'm gonna do this!
My grand magic spell
is finally complete
and it's time to cast it on you!
Once it's cast, you can
never be free of it.
It's permanent and unbreakable,
so get your heart ready
to be enchanted, okay?
Ready? Here we go!
Not yet!
Okay. Grand Magic.
"Go Be Happy!"
There, the spell has been cast.
Time for you to forget about me.
Carry on and let your
lives move forward.
As of this moment,
I am a stranger to you both.
Don't forget to
destroy the video, okay?
Bye, everybody,
that's all we got!
So that's it.
You know that could never work.
You know I'll never be
able to forget about you.
You can't just wave a wand
and take yourself
out of my memories.
I want you there
more than anything!
That spell won't work!
[KYOKO chuckles]
How can you be laughing?
It's just so like Mom, right?
No. It's like that lady.
Kyoko.
This whole time,
I was sure losing her
was the hardest on me.
I believed that I was
the one suffering the most.
I was wrong about that.
I never understood
how much you were hurting.
Listen, Dad. Let's believe in
the power of Mom's spell.
And if we do, maybe it'll work.
We can live happy lives
like she wanted.
We have to try.
She worked so hard for us
on that magic spell.
Don't let her love go to waste.
Amazing. Kyoko, when did you
become as strong as you are?
Just now, when Mom
cast that spell on us.
She wanted us to move on and
be happy, so I have no choice.
Her magic is way too
powerful to fight.
Let it work, Dad.
Don't stay locked up in here.
Go out into the world.
Meet all kinds of new people.
Someone who can love you.
That's part of Mom's spell,
so you have to. It's magic.
You think so?
Course you're right.
How could I stand
against the grand magic
your mother spent so many hours
of her life trying to master?
I can't beat her.
There's no way.
‐‐[doorbell rings]
‐‐[BOTH] Hm?
[panting]
Whoa, is everything okay?
I came here to tell you
how much your magic phone
just helped me and my dad.
I felt like I needed
to say thank you.
But I... I wasn't
thinking about how.
My heart zoomed over
and I followed it here.
I don't have to
keep it bottled up.
Because you helped me.
No need to thank me! I just‐‐
But you spent all that time
making the magic
phone for me, right?
You're the whole reason
I got to talk to my Mom again.
Oh, it was nothing!
In fact I never meant to
build an afterlife phone, so...
It was way too amazing
to just be an accident.
So, truly. Thank you.
Well, I'm glad I could help.
So then, you think there's
anything I could do
to pay you back for
all you've done for me?
[gasps]
[YOTA] Could this be
the moment to tell her
how I feel about her again?
Can I make it count this time?
Izanami?
Uh‐huh?
[YOTA]
You think we could...
Surely the romance he nurtures
shall bear fruit hereafter.
Yet still, my heart stirreth.
What might this
fresh unease portend?
Sorry. The words just
wouldn't come out.
Wherefore the heck not?
It was done. You had it!
What is wrong with you?
I guess it felt too much
like cheating to me.
It's not cheating if it's
divine intervention!
I'm really sorry.
Though I should expect as much,
for such is thy nature
for better or for worse.
You sound so relieved.
To hear my power demeaned
by thy mortal
tongue as cheating?
Nay, I should reveal
thy hidden proclivities
to the world to punish thee!
[YOTA] Please! Anything
but my proclivities!